[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> One of the depressing
statistics is how many people
check their phones first
thing in the morning.
They wake up and they look at
their social media accounts.
They check email first
thing in the morning.
And that's over half the people.
In some surveys, about
2/3 of people do this.
There are studies showing that
some people check their cell
phones during
sexual intercourse.
[LAUGHS] This is an addiction.
That's addictive behavior.
We're addicted to stuff, and
very little of it is positive.
So we're filling our minds with
negative news, negative inputs.
We're not taking
control of our health.
We're handing control
of our health,
and our thoughts, and our
beliefs to other people
outside of ourselves.
And we're handing our thoughts
and control of our beliefs
over to people who just want to
make a buck off negative news.
So one study, for example,
looked at the world.
And it compared the world
to news about the world.
Now, if you look at
actual objective measures
of human flourishing,
they're fantastic.
In the last 33 years,
human global wealth
of the average
citizen has tripled.
Over the last century, the
human lifespan has, on average,
doubled.
We now have about half the
CO2 production per unit of GDP
we had 20 years ago.
If you look at human rights, if
you look at infant mortality,
virtually every
measure of flourishing
shows we're improving.
Globally, IQ is rising by about
three points every decade.
So if you just look
at all the statistics,
everything points to us
being in an unprecedented era
of human flourishing.
Now, what's happening in
the media is the opposite.
One team of scientists did
a word analysis of words
in "The New York Times" dating
from 1945 to the present.
And of course, we have
records going back that long
with "The New York Times."
And they found that
over the years,
the number of words like
good, and positive, happy, all
of those words were
in steady decline.
And words like horrific,
and tragic, and violent--
all these negative
words were going up.
Even as the actual state of the
world is improving steadily,
our perception of it as
portrayed by the media
is getting worse.
In fact, that same team,
they looked at word analysis
from 130 countries, all
their media since 1975.
And they found the same pattern.
All over the world,
we're being told
things are worse, and worse,
and worse while they're getting
better, and better, and better.
And so what happens when
we wake up in the morning
and we then hand our
conscience over to Facebook,
and Google, and Instagram, and
all these external sources,
we're then saying, you go
program my mind for me.
And you're getting a completely
inaccurate view of the world
by doing that.
What I recommend
you do instead--
what I do every morning--
is I wake up in the morning.
And immediately, I
attune to what I call
in my books the non-local mind.
We have our consciousness.
But our consciousness is not
the artifact of a complex brain.
Our brain is more
like a transceiver
of information from
non-local fields,
and a translator of that
information into local reality.
We literally make up
local reality around us
with our brains.
So if you wake up in the
morning and you, of course,
have a local mind,
you have a local body.
But if you immediately
attune it to non-local mind,
non-local reality, then
the news you're getting
is the news of the universe.
And it is positive.
It is full of abundance, and
love, and compassion, and joy.
So now you're plugging
yourself into all of that.
You aren't plugging yourself
into all the negative media,
the negative inputs, and
filling your mind with that.
You're plugging into reality.
That stuff out there
is not reality.
This stuff up here is reality.
The mystics, the saints,
the sages throughout history
have told us that you lose
yourself in this ocean of bliss
when you're there.
Now, what starts
happening in your body
then is not high cortisol.
It is not high adrenaline.
It's high DHEA.
It's high oxytocin.
It's high anandamide,
the bliss molecule.
It is nitric oxide.
It is norepinephrine,
which helps you stay alert.
All these beneficial
shifts happen in your body.
Your brain secretes
beta endorphins.
So you'll be in a
meditation practice.
Beta endorphins are the
natural form of morphine.
They are three
times more powerful
than synthetic morphine.
So now you start your
meditation practice.
You feel a little bit
of an ache in your back.
Your tummy is rumbling.
You feel a bit of a neck
ache from exercising too
much yesterday.
And suddenly, you're in bliss.
You've forgotten
about your body.
That's beta
endorphins kicking in.
So you now have all
these beneficial hormones
and neurotransmitters kicking in
because you've plugged yourself
into the information source
of the universe, which
has nothing but love for you and
love for everything around you.
So that's how you want
to start your day.
And those are the beneficial
biological changes
you want be producing
in your body,
not all these negative
ones that come
from plugging into
the outside world,
to these thoughts, and
ideas, and world views,
and stories that
come from the news.
[MUSIC PLAYING]